AUTHORS.md, before:

Designers
---------

- **Chacha20:** Daniel J. Bernstein.
- **Poly1305:** Daniel J. Bernstein.
- **Blake2:**   Jean-Philippe Aumasson, Christian Winnerlein, Samuel Neves,
                and Zooko Wilcox-O'Hearn
- **Argon2:**   Alex Biryukov, Daniel Dinu, and Dmitry Khovratovich
- **X25519:**   Daniel J. Bernstein
- **EdDSA:**    Daniel J. Bernstein, Bo-Yin Yang, Niels Duif, Peter
                Schwabe, and Tanja Lange

Implementors
------------

- **Chacha20:** Loup Vaillant, implemented from spec.
- **Poly1305:** Loup Vaillant, implemented from spec.
- **Blake2b:**  Loup Vaillant, implemented from spec.
- **Argon2i:**  Loup Vaillant, implemented from spec.
- **X25519:**   Daniel J. Bernstein, taken and packaged from SUPERCOP
                ref10.
- **EdDSA:**    Daniel J. Bernstein, taken and adapted from SUPERCOP
                ref10 and TweetNaCl.

Test suite
----------

Designed and implemented by Loup Vaillant, using _libsodium_ (by many
authors), and _ed25519-donna_ (by Andrew Moon —floodyberry).

Manual
------

Loup Vaillant, Fabio Scotoni, and Michael Savage.

Loup Vaillant did a first draft, Fabio Scotoni rewrote the manual into
proper man pages, and Michael Savage did extensive editing and
proofreading.

Thanks
------

Mike Pechkin and André Maroneze found bugs in earlier versions of
Monocypher.

Andrew Moon clarified carry propagation in modular arithmetic.

Fabio Scotoni provided much needed advice about testing, interface, and
above all, packaging.

Commit message:

Thank Mike Hamburg for his advice on comb algorithms

AUTHORS.md, after:

Designers
---------

- **Chacha20:** Daniel J. Bernstein.
- **Poly1305:** Daniel J. Bernstein.
- **Blake2:**   Jean-Philippe Aumasson, Christian Winnerlein, Samuel Neves,
                and Zooko Wilcox-O'Hearn
- **Argon2:**   Alex Biryukov, Daniel Dinu, and Dmitry Khovratovich
- **X25519:**   Daniel J. Bernstein
- **EdDSA:**    Daniel J. Bernstein, Bo-Yin Yang, Niels Duif, Peter
                Schwabe, and Tanja Lange

Implementors
------------

- **Chacha20:** Loup Vaillant, implemented from spec.
- **Poly1305:** Loup Vaillant, implemented from spec.
- **Blake2b:**  Loup Vaillant, implemented from spec.
- **Argon2i:**  Loup Vaillant, implemented from spec.
- **X25519:**   Daniel J. Bernstein, taken and packaged from SUPERCOP
                ref10.
- **EdDSA:**    Daniel J. Bernstein, taken and adapted from SUPERCOP
                ref10 and TweetNaCl.  (With significant speed tweaks).


Test suite
----------

Designed and implemented by Loup Vaillant, using _libsodium_ (by many
authors), and _ed25519-donna_ (by Andrew Moon —floodyberry).

Manual
------

Loup Vaillant, Fabio Scotoni, and Michael Savage.

Loup Vaillant did a first draft, Fabio Scotoni rewrote the manual into
proper man pages, and Michael Savage did extensive editing and
proofreading.

Thanks
------

Mike Pechkin and André Maroneze found bugs in earlier versions of
Monocypher.

Andrew Moon clarified carry propagation in modular arithmetic.

Fabio Scotoni provided much needed advice about testing, interface, and
above all, packaging.

Mike Hamburg explained comb algorithms, including the signed
all-bits-set comb described in his 2012 paper, Fast and compact
elliptic-curve cryptography.  This made EdDSA signatures over twice as
fast.
